part 1:

1
An IP address is a unique numerical ID for each device connected on a network. It's used to identify different hosts/connections 
and also acts as an address to send and receive information, so it's necessary to connect to the internet and communicate.

2
A global IP address is used for communicating on the internet, a local IP is used for devices on a local network to connect 
and communicate with each other. A router is a local network with a global IP, so it has several local IPs to let the other 
devices connect to it and then it uses the shared Global IP to connect those devices to the internet (with the router as an intermediary).

3
Global: 142.117.73.13    Local: 192.168.2.17

4
Static IPs Do not change, dynamic IPs do change over time. Static IPs are often used for servers and other connections that might benefit 
from having a consistent, easier-to-find address, but they're more costly than Dynamic. Dynamic IP's are more common for personal use and
since they change they can be harder to track.

5
Port forwarding is the directing of external data within a local network. Ports act as IDs for each app or service running on a device,
similar to how an IP acts as an ID for a device. Port forwarding tells the local network what local IP address and port to send global 
data to, mapping a global port to the local IP/port (aka socket).

6
A socket is the combination of an IP address and a port, so its the ID for both a device and the service running on a network. 

7
Ports are a range of well-known(0-1023), registered(1024 - 49151) or client program (49152-65535) numbers which each network 
device has. Sockets also include an IP address so you can determine the port of the specific device. 
(Are these basically what we've been doing with signifiers to a very large extent?)

8
Well 0 to 1023 have specific purposes, so they shouldn't be used. Some ports between 1024 and 49151 have registered uses, but those seem 
to be most concentrated below 5000. So you'd probably want to use something over 5000.

9
The OSI model describes the different layers used to communicate over a network. It has 7 layers: application, presentation, session, 
transport, network, data link and physical. They differentiate between the different ways data is transmitted and interacted with.

10
As game developers we'll probably be mostly concerned with the application layer and how data is conveyed to a player and received from them. 

11
TCP is a protocol for establishing and maintaining connections which transmit data. It determines how to break up data into packets and how 
to deliver them to a peer in order to ensure a reliable transmission between the server and client.

12
UDP is a communications protocol used for time sensitive transmissions. It doesn't require an established connection before it sends the data, 
which is faster, but may lose data.

13
TCP is best used when there can be an acceptable delay between sending and receiving data, like when sending emails or turn based games.

14
UDP is best used when there can't be a delay or the server and client are simultaneously sending data back and forth and both need to be up to 
date. This includes video calls and live multiplayer games.